---
layout: post
title:      "When It's Time to Change "
date:       2019-05-19 21:57:54 -0400
permalink:  when_its_time_to_change
---


I walked from table to table at the job fair in downtown Raleigh, still carrying my stack of resumes and hoping that one of the businesses represented there would have a position that would be a good match for me. For the previous two years, I had worked at an insurance exchange, but the monotony and low pay -- among other issues -- had taken their toll on me. Hence, my decision to seek other employment. Though I didn't find another job that day, my visit to the job fair ended up setting me on the path to Flatiron's program.
Seeing that several IT schools were represented at the job fair, I sensed the proverbial 'light bulb' come on in my mind, and I decided to talk with their reps and take some of their pamphlets. Later that day, I broached the idea with my wife about the possibility of my heading back to school to train for a new career in computers. She had agreed with me that it was definitely time for a job change, but I found one major road block constantly in my way: I wasn't really qualified to do anything with better pay, chances for advancement, or satisfaction. To my relief and delight, my wife supported the idea, and a few months later I walked out of that insurance call center for good and started taking web development classes at a nearby community college.
Why web development? For one thing, I found that job growth and salary outlook for the field were quite good. In addition, the subject matter was a good fit for my interests/aptitudes. In my early 20's, I had completed a questionnaire regarding careers that would be a good match for me, and 'computer programmer' was on the listed recommended based on my answers. I only wish I had chosen that rather than majoring in other subjects that proved a poor fit for me...
Any I took classes at the community college for a few semesters, eventually earning a certificate in web development basics. However, while the classes were helpful to an extent, I still felt that I needed to beef up my skills and produce some portfolio-quality work that I could show potential employers. Then there was the matter of actually finding a job in this field. The college's career services department wasn't very helpful, prompting me to look into other ways to get a foot in web development. Long story short, after learning about online coding bootcamps, I opted to enroll in Flatiron's software developer program.
Those of you familiar with the old sitcom "The Brady Bunch" may remember an episode that featured the kids singing a song called ["Time to Change"](https://youtu.be/n70kL1rVGg4), which reminds listeners that change is an inevitable part of life and to be ready to make the necessary adjustments. And for me, the time had come to change career directions. I'm in my mid-40's, so I'm what you would call a 'non-traditional' student. Going back to school has had its ups and downs, not the least of which being the costs involved and trying to juggle my coursework, a part-time job, a marriage, and a modicum of a social life. Yet with the help of my family -- especially my extremely loving, devoted, and supportive wife -- I'm making it happen. And I'm following the Brady kids' advice to rearrange who I am into what I'm going to be.

